## 2013-06-15 culture.md

## A lack of source

Some thing to think and worry about, potentially:

    We do not have the source code 
    for most of the games that we play.

Now you can say to yourself; "Well this is obvious, how are game developers
meant to make money if they just *give* the programs source away". Maybe they
can, maybe they can not. I am not asking them to, although that would be nice.
What I am going to tell you about is the consequences of this, that these
cultural icons will be lost forever. 

Society at large may not recognize games as art, even if they contain it, I am
not asking you to. However what is undeniable is the fact that these games have
an enormous impact on us, many people spend their lives consumed by them as
others do TV programs, books, films, music and other media. They spend time
playing them and a smaller set spends time making them, some for profit and some
for the fun of it. It has an impact on out lives whether you like the
consequences or not. 

This information is being lost everyday. Source code gets lost, people loose the
knowledge to build complicated systems, knowledge remains un-transferred between
peers. All because the source for these icons are kept hidden behind closed
doors. 

Unlike with operating systems, compilers, systems software and a fair few
applications the open source movement has not really made any progress into the
field of gaming and I find this to be a real shame. Eventually these games that
form a part of the cultural mind and being will become unplayable. Maybe layers
of emulators will come to the rescue, but even so information about how these
games are made and developed will be lost, it will become more difficult to
probe into the minds of the developers and the creative teams behind these games
as time goes on.

### The Solution?

Unfortunately I do not offer a solution, you can keep pestering companies to
release their code after all the profit has been squeezed out of them, you may
even be successful. I am just telling you of a problem that exists that you may
not be aware of.

