## 2013-07-21 hackgreen.md

## Hack green "Secret" Nuclear Bunker

Recently I went to a formerly used bunker, called "Hack green secret nuclear
bunker", it is obviously not secret anymore given their is sign postings
pointing to it for miles around as well as a [website][] and [Wikipedia][] page
for it. However it is now open to the public, containing lots of cold war
memorabilia amongst other things. The tour is both thoroughly interesting as
well as depressing at the same time as the effects of nuclear weapons on a
country and individuals are given an equal showing, especially in a video
viewing called ["The War Game"][] which I recommend watching.

My Dad and I decided to pop down to have a look. The last time I went here was
about ten years ago. I brought along my mobile phone (or more aptly I decided
not to leave it at home as is the norm) to take photos while I was there.
Something like [Google Glass][] would have been perfect for a museum tour like
this one as I would not have had to constantly been putting my phone away and
taking it out again, I could worry more about what was there instead of worrying
about recording it *and* recorded the trip in much greater detail.

### Photos

The pill box bellow outside is presumably there to keep the desolate and hungry
survivors of a nuclear war out instead of anything relating to a soviet 
invasion.
![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_110514.jpg "Pill box outside")

This is the cutest armored vehicle I have ever seen. 

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_110817.jpg "Small armored vechile
in the atrium")

The site has many decommissioned nuclear warheads like the one shown bellow.
This one is a small one at only 400 Kilotons TNT equivalent!
![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_110841.jpg "400 Kiloton Nuclear
Warhead")

There is a fair amount of Soviet memorabilia around, this is one of their flags,
it did not say what for.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_111125.jpg "COMMUNISM!")

This I believe is part of a telephone exchange, but I am not sure, you can
instantly tell the difference between militarized and consumer electronics,
which is one (of many) reasons why they are more expensive.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_113027.jpg "Robust electronics")

As an electronic engineer I am glad that I do not have to work with valve
technology; big, clunky and no where near as good as the smaller transistors
that have replaced them.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_113151.jpg "Valves! The technology
of the future!")

Here is some pretty cool civil defense equipment.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_113635.jpg "Civil defense
equipment")

And some booklets I would have liked to have read (but could not).

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_113729.jpg "Civil defense booklets")

You can see the text in the picture which has a description of what this is, an
escape suit for a submarine. You can also see a little mouse, which is part of a
game where kids (and like minded adults) can hunt all of the mice around the
bunker, some more difficult to find than others.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_114049.jpg "Soviet submarine escape
suit and a mouse")

Before a possible nuclear disaster in times of high tension between us and the
soviets the local government would have convened in places like this one which
would function as a command center if the worst happened. 

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_115247.jpg "A very 1980s command
center")

More old, and robust, electronics. I wonder how much of this could be replaced
by a single desktop computer.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_115351.jpg "Bikini state Red!")

I find old electronics fascinating, how they could build and design such systems
without the level of computer aided design we have nowadays as well as the
sophistication of such systems, even though primitive by todays standards. This
was once *futuristic*, nowadays computers are ubiquitous, in places where we do
not even know about.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_124942.jpg "Computer, they are not
built like they used to be, they're built better!")

Once a super secret warning system where just taking a picture of this system
would have been treasonous, it is now on display for all (who pay) to see!

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_125427.jpg "Early Warning System
moved from RAF Wycome")
![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_125436.jpg "Early Warning System,
different shot")

More **COMMUNISM**, unfortunately anything related to the soviet union was
placed in ill lit areas to create atmosphere which made taking photos difficult.

![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_125823.jpg "More COMMUNISM!")
![hackgreen](/img/jpg/hackgreen/IMG_20130720_125840.jpg "Even *more* COMMUNISM!")


### Not shown here

There is a lot that is not shown here, either because I decided not to upload
those pictures or because it is of an audio-visual nature. There are sounds,
alarms, recording and videos playing as well that I could not capture. I think
it is a good trip out.

[website]: http://www.hackgreen.co.uk/
[Wikipedia]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hack_Green_Secret_Nuclear_Bunker
["The War Game"]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geva0lLP-Zs 
[Google Glass]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Glass
