## 2013-06-15 LaTeX.md

## LaTeX and Markdown

This is not just about [LaTeX][], it will be about [markdown][] (and other mark*up*
languages). Why should you be using these formats instead of the usual office
programs or document formats.

### A case for LaTeX

Go to any website dealing with LaTeX online and you will be given a list of
reasons as to why to use them; It good for long documents, for mathematical 
equations and typesetting, it is good at typesetting in general.

In a different blog entry I expressed my disdain for the large amount of space
that it took up, which was actually more due to decisions to the package
maintainer than everything. The core is actually quite small and light weight,
it is not bloated. It does not require a humongous and ever growing amount of
processing power to run, you can use a simple text editor to create your
document and you will get beautiful results. 

Using different *stylesheets* you can turn LaTeX into something else entirely, I
have used it for it's standard uses such as my thesis, to write up reports, but
I have also used it to make [posters][] for instance. I regularly use it to
include snippets of code which is takes directly from the source file and
presents it in a syntax highlighted and well formatted way *automatically*. It
can be used for "powerpoint"-like presentations, or to make Gantt charts. I have
yet to scratch the surface of all of its features.

I have heard the phrase "it is good for *long* documents" when people refer to
LaTeX. I contend that is also good for short ones (although for really short
ones I prefer markdown or plain text). There is no great penalty, intellectual
or time wise, in bringing up your favorite editor and using a template which
once done will produce better results than your standard word processor in less
time. I do not know why I hear people say that it is only well suited to long
documents.

LaTeX is not for the those that are not willing to put the time in to learn, it
does require time and energy. While you may not have to worry about the
presentation and you are able to type what you want from memory eventually,
initially you will be struggling to learn how to get what you want *just right*,
but once you have you can immediately use what you have learned in all of your
other documents.

The method you use to prepare documents is *text*, I have previously written on
why this is such a good thing and it is; if you want to view the document in
ten, twenty or X many years after its creation not only will be able to even if
the document preparation system does not work, but compared to most other
software your LaTeX has the best chance of still being operational. In the
unlikely event that you cannot get your document to compile in the future, it is
not the end of the matter. All the important information can still be extracted
from the document which cannot be said for Microsoft office, which has no
guarantees that it will be; Around in the future, that if it is will work with
your document, that it will look the same. The document system I am advocating
is very stable, if it compiles in the future it is highly likely to produce
exactly the same output. And all for free!

### A case for markdown

Markdown belongs to a class of [lightweight markup languages][], which although
it will not produce as impressive output as LaTeX will, although it is not as
powerful either, it still is very much useful. This document itself is written
in markdown, you may either be reading a version converted to HTML or the
original document. It does not matter which, it will be easily readable in
either, so much so that you may not even be aware of any markup in the first
place (although the links tend to give it away). 

Bringing up a text editor you can start writing straight away and without
thinking about how to do something you can be writing in markdown from the
beginning. The syntax and all the rules can easily fit in your head after a days
practice, which certainly cannot be said for LaTeX and nor any word processor
which hides all of the capabilities from the users so they may not even aware of
such things as automatic creation of contents tables which you will be quickly
made so of with LaTeX.

It is truly a simple language, one which will definitely be available for all
time. Why do I say this? Because even though the language may not be in use in
the future, given a reference to specification and enough examples you can
create the programs to manipulate markdown yourself, it is not a massive
engineering project like LaTeX and word processors are. For the lazy you can
forego this and just *read* the documents in their original form, they are
perfectly readable as they are. This is why the it language is here to stay.

If you are going to make a text file, then you may as well use it even if you do
not plan on converting the format to HTML, PDF or some other document. It is
just that easy to write that you have no reason *not* to. If you are only making
a short document then instead of opening up Libreoffice consider markdown then
LaTeX instead.

### Conclusion

There are other formats out there that you can use that have the same strengths
as these two systems, I have argued for these formats because they are fairly
popular and they are what I use, I know that there are very similar markup
schemes compared to markdown such as [reStructuredText][], use whichever you
feel most comfortable with but use *one*, one with a similar philosophy that is.

Use them because they are; open, easy to use, text files and some of the best
tools there are for the job. These tools are here to stay.

[LaTeX]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LaTeX
[markdown]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
[reStructuredText]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restructured_text
[lightweight markup languages]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language
[posters]: http://www.brian-amberg.de/uni/poster/
