## 2013-06-15 minimal.md

## Minimalism

Minimalism is to different people different things, the term started out in
relation to a design philosophy but to certain subsections of the online
community it has become something a lot more, a way of life and a guiding moral 
philosophy, to some an goal in its own right. To accomplish, do, create or be
with as little as possible.

One expression of this is to try to limit your own possessions to an arbitrary
count, some have managed to whittle this down to a few not-so-meagre possessions
(there is a lot you can do with modern technology). While the number maybe
arbitrary the idea of having an arbitrary goal is not, it is not the number that
is important it is what it represents; a freedom from the consumerist burden.

Apart from anti-consumption there can be other goals as well; people cite the
freedom to move around, the ability to reduce everything to what they need in
order to focus on what is important, environmental concerns and economic
reasons. What ever their goals minimalism is usually argued to be *virtuous* and
that is not a difficult position to defend.

At it's core it is about reduction to what is necessary and nothing more.

### Common problems

Let me walk you through a few situations:

You wake up in the morning, man or woman, you have to make a decision as to what
to wear. You go shopping for food, you have to make a decision as to what you
are going to eat. You go home, you sit in front of the TV or computer, you have
to decide what you are going to consume. All of these decision but nothing to
choose from. Having too much to choice is not a good thing, it can paralyze your
thought process.

Given an opportunity to work in a job, it could be because the pay is better or
it is your dream job, there will be a few problems in doing so. One of them is
moving to that new location where the job is at, you have to bring all your
possessions with you. It is either that or throw them out which is a waste as
you spent for them. 

Sitting at your desk, at work or home, you have a problem, you are constantly
tripping over clothes, gadgets and trinkets. There are boxes of things that you
are convinced that you must have, "just-in-case", said as one word as the
concept is ossified in your mind. 

Turning on your computer from start to when the operating system has loaded
takes a full five minutes, to load everything, all you want to do is browse the
Internet and write a few notes. It should not take this long but it does.

You want to buy something, you have no money.

Tired of working you want to retire as early as possible, however there are too
many bills to pay; you have two cars, a mortgage for a large house, you just
must have that 44-Inch plasma TV and then another one. Despite earning well
above average you do not know how you will make it.

Embracing minimalism as a philosophy can be embracing a solution to these
problems, a way to drop out of the daily churn, it is not a catch all solution
but it can *help*. Minimalism certainly is not an overarching philosophy or a
way of life, it is an *aid*.


### The power of constraint

Why is it that people work better at their jobs instead of in their own time? A
short three word saying is "free your mind", as any short saying it does not
tell you much, how about another one, "constrain your mind". Have you tried
instead of freeing yourself to constrain yourself, your actions and your
resources.

We have all been told that freedom is a good thing, and certain types are, but
freedom can be detrimental as well. Given a choice between the healthy and the
unhealthy we choose the tasty, a bad choice. This is just a demonstration that
*freedom* is not always a good thing. And choice can be a bad thing as well when
your objective is to get something done; whether it be project work, self
improvement, travel, learning, anything. 

Limit yourself and the resources you have at your disposal and you increase your
changes of doing something new, stretching the capabilities of what is possible.
Use what everyone else is using and suffer to create what everyone else is
creating. 

It is not only the resources you should limit, in fact that might not be *your*
problem, you should limit the amount of projects you do at one time. Instead of
hopping around doing a little bit here and there, sit down and actually do
something instead of talking and thinking about it. Never have more projects on
the table than you can handle, if you are worried you will forget about them
write a list of notes about them, then forget about it, you should focus only on
a few things at once.

People are often given a limit set of resources to do at work, there are
motivations such as money and the possibility of not receiving it in the future
due to performance problems, but that does not explain why people struggle to
produce when given copious amounts of free time. People are given resources at
work, limited ones, they are also given goals and structure, that structure is
limiting. Limit yourself to only what is necessary, willpower you will have to
find yourself.

Now if you accept that constraints can give you freedoms, by minimizing what you
own, the choices you have to make, what do you free yourself for?

### Common techniques

Real life:

* Delaying a purchase.

Put the item on a list, wait a month, if you still want the item in a month then
perhaps then it is worth buying.

* Minimalist hobbies

There are a few minimalist hobbies that you can do; reading, writing,
programming, synthetic music composition, amateur photography, running,
calisthenics. These require little in the way of equipment and cost next to
nothing to do. 

* Reducing current items.

Any items you are not sure if you need put in a box, make sure to label what is
in the box. 

* Limit yourself to X items.

You do as previously mentioned and limit yourself to only, say, one hundred
items, it is a way to start and perhaps a goal that you might not achieve and
which you know you will not, that does not matter, it is something to work
towards.

* Hourly rate.

An item costs money, given that you are paid on hourly rate of X amount, how
many hours would you have to work in order to buy it, then ask is that worth it.

* Memories not items.

Instead of bringing back souvenirs from holiday, bring back only photos. Digital
photos weigh nothing (be sure to back everything up), it is the memories that
are important.

* Retirement.

Instead of having easy to access cash, simply make it more difficult to spend
your own money. It is wise to save money, not just for a retirement but because
of unforeseen events. The toolbox that contains everything also contains a
twenty pound note, you will find that money is more important than the things it
can buy as you can spend it on anything. You cannot barter with a trinket you
brought on holiday.

Writing:

I tend to be a little bit more verbose in what I write than I should, you should
always seek to a way of making your writing as understandable as possible to
everyone; the point is to write clearly about something, to write an argument or
explanation about something, being verbose does not help unless it is a
technical specification, even then it can be a hindrance. There are some style
guides that deal with this, [The Economist Style Guide][]
for one.

News:

Despite news being a huge in todays society, able to topple governments and
influence policy, not always for the better, I find it difficult to actually be
able to point to a story and say "This article changed my life". You are
probably the same, news generally is not important. It is not relevant to
anything you do, it is not as entertaining or intellectually stimulating as
other tasks (for example reading). News is like the junk food of information,
except you do not even realize it is unhealthy for you.

It is easy to think that the world is falling apart by looking at the tabloids
when in actual fact we are getting safer each year. We do face problems, such as
climate change, but these are less focused on in favor of the little problems
and incidents.

This view is not new, consult the essay written by Rolf Dobelli, [Avoid News][]

Minimize the sources of information you have in your life and focus on thinking
instead of memorizing facts, facts are useless without understanding.

Computing:

This one is a difficult one, difficult because it is actually a technical one,
by 'Minimalist computing' I mean using limited hardware and less bloated tools,
not having a spartan desktop - which there is nothing wrong with, but it is an
entirely different thing.

Social:

A phrase that conjures up all that is bad in my view (hyperbole of course)
"Social Media". Facebook, Twitter, whatever the next iterations of these will
be. To me they are useless. You can keep in contact with people by phone, Email,
texts - perhaps even by *meeting* up with them. You certainly do not need a
panopticon to do so. You should try to cultivate strong relationships between
only a few people instead of knowing hundreds but only knowing them a little.

Design:

This article deals more with the thinking behind a largely disorganized
community, it does not deal with the design aspects of things, even if a
'minimalist' can appreciate the design movement.

Although for [webdesign][] I would start reading an article I found posted on 
Hacker New.

### Different kinds of minimalism in computing.

* Cloud storage.

Within the community there is a camp that prefers to use as many external cloud
storage applications as possible, that simplifies and minimized their life by
off loading the complications of maintaining such systems to an external actor. 

It certainly is *one* kind of minimalism, that of one that reduces complexity
that is shown to the user (but not necessarily minimal in other aspects). It
does one thing as well, it offloads power. The cloud service provider is now in
control of your data and can do with it what they will. 

* Thumb drive / USB flash drive.

A slightly different kind of minimalism is where you have direct control of your
data, again have minimal hardware requirements, but you are more in control of
your data. Especially if you boot from a [Live CD][], as the hardware *itself*
is unlikely to be compromised. You could use computers in Internet cafés,
University or school campuses, at work, wherever you can so long as you actually
do have access. You just move around the information.

I very much like this idea, although it is one that does not suit me.

* No computers.

The final one is no computers as all, which is not an option for a lot of
people and in this day an age is more ascetic than minimalist. 

For all the good computers do they also create problems, one of too much
information on power which ends up being paralyzing instead of liberating. Using
a pen and paper, a dumb phone and a calculator (I am *very* much aware these
contain computers, yet they are obviously not what most people think about when
they are talking about them), books and analogue devices can be very much
liberating. To those that find the distraction wrought upon them by these
massively interconnected calculating machines it can be *more* productive not to
use them.

As time goes on these people will become more of a minority unless a thriving
subculture that goes against the trend forms.

### Final words

Focus on what is important in life, for me it is my Leonor. You should seek
minimalism so you can instead concentrate on what makes you happy and not try to
do it for its own sake.

[webdesign]: http://justinjackson.ca/words.html
[Avoid News]: http://dobelli.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/Avoid_News_Part1_TEXT.pdf
[The Economist Style Guide]:http://www.economist.com/styleguide/introduction
[Live CD]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live_CD
