## 2013-07-07 smartphones.md

## Smart Phones

I was recently introduced and disappointed with in a short period of time to a
concept and device (which as of yet does not exist, or at least to my knowledge
it does not).

The idea would be to take a normal medium to high end smart phone, put some
*decent* software on it (Ubuntu) and then allow this to dock seamlessly with a
screen and keyboard, a mouse would not go amiss but that did not seem to be
included. 

Unfortunately the device does not exist.

### Why is this such a good idea?

I do not actually need that much computing power, nor do most people. If I do I
could go an use a computer built specifically for that, for example for
simulations, or I can be patient (for example when it comes to file
compression). 

What I do need is the level of power and customization that comes with the
software that a full blown (albeit tailored for a smart phone) GNU/Linux
distribution. I *need* a command line, I *need* a package manager and not an
"app store". I need full access to my phone and its capabilities.

![A portable computing system](/img/jpg/smartphones.md.jpg "A complete, minimalist, computing system. That does not exist yet.")

### Portable and minimalist

This system, if actually devised, would allow for a single point of truth. There
would be no syncing with different devices although it would be wise to have
backups. I would not need a computer and a smart phone, just one device. Despite
being an advanced piece of technology it is very minimalist in ways, already
existing smart phones can act as; a wireless "hotspot", MP3 player, E-book
reader, a mobile phone of course, a calculator, GPS device, low quality (but
improving) camera and video camera, a recorder, a web browser and much more.
This extends its capabilities to I hope is the future of smart phones, where we
have more open devices that are not completely controlled by the phone companies
and manufacturers. 

It is portable as well, you could take your phone and use a different docking
station entirely and now you have a system that behaves exactly like your
computer at home because it *is* your computer from home.

Give me a phone that I can run mutt, vim and GCC with ease and is simple enough
as typing in a command with your package manager to acquire them and I will be 
finally happy with my phone.

For what *most* people use their phone for the power in a smart phone will
suffice, they really are amazing sensor, computing, storage and communications
devices. It will not be long until we have 128GB SD cards which is also large
enough for a lot of things.

I just wish this hypothetical device was real. An ultimate in minimalist
electronics where we only have to have *one* device for all our purposes
(nearly).
