## Copyright and Star Trek.

In Star Trek there is one piece of technology that allows them to live in that
Utopian society the writers envisioned, or at least it goes a long way in
helping, an item known as the replicator. It can duplicate any physical item
known which would render manufacturing completely irrelevant. We live with this
technology in the real world on a regular basis but it does not deal with matter
but with information, the personal computer along with the Internet has given us
this capability.

### Copying

There is very little that can be done to stop copying, people may cry that
pirates are ruining your business but your business is not the natural state of
affairs, it needs a huge legal system in place just to catch a minority of those
who offend these laws. You may wonder how you could possibly afford to become a
artist or author if there are not royalties associated with that and what would
happen without those protections.

It would be certain the all facets of the media industry *as we know it* would
change, that highlighted section is key, it would change but it certainly would
not disappear nor would it necessarily be of a lower quality. My main gripe at
the moment is not with patents, I think they are valid for now, but with
copyright.

The fact is any one can publish now, anyone can make music, art, write (even
technical literature), take pictures and videos and they can do it in their
spare time. Every generation for a few hundred years now has been more educated
than the last, has fewer in poverty, has greater literacy rates. In the past few
decades we have been given access to wonderful technologies; mobile
communication devices, a global network of computers and the software that is on
it. A camera that can take reasonable pictures can fit in your pocket, you can
write and make a website with just what nowadays are simple tools, you can even
typeset it to a reasonable degree. All the tools can be purchased for a fraction
of the minimum wage in the western world and your audience is potentially
everyone who also has these tools.

I am not saying everyone can or will produce, nor will they produce much of
value for those that do, but there will be a few who make good works, works
which are even now available for free. They do it because for many reasons, it
could be boredom, a love of their craft, because they have been commissioned to
do so or because it is part of their regular job to make these free works. 

The quality of this article is up for debate, but its price is not, it is
available for you for free and someone out there has probably written a similar
article, better or worse, also for free. Information can be copied for our
purposes infinitely and at no cost, yet we still end up paying for it.

Keep this in mind, you have no right to enter the industry of your choosing,
no right to be famous or to make money of your work no matter how hard you have
worked. You get paid for doing something people will pay you for not for doing
what you want, you may get paid for creating but it is my contention that you
should not continue to get paid for it nearly indefinitely. I will get paid to
program, even if I do not keep the code itself, artists can earn commission for
doing something as well, there are alternative models for the creation of
intellectual labor.

I have not yet addressed how a lot of content will actually be produced if there
is no copyright laws in place, a situation I am sure will never happen any time
soon, which will depend on the industry. I can only offer suggestions and viable
alternatives.

#### Music

I have *heard* that a lot of artists who are starting out do not get much in the
way of royalties anyway, instead they get their money for performing. I am fine
with this, they get money for actually doing something instead of something that
they did. Many people in a lot of industries, for example mine, get paid for
doing something and not what they did. I do not get paid for code I wrote years
ago, but I do get paid to actually program.

A lack of copyright would cut out the fat, the distributors who want their pound
of flesh, instead of artificial "pop sensations" that are instantly forgettable
we could have a situation where music is grown entirely organically amongst a
fan base.

#### Books - Fiction

People write fiction, people write good fiction that does not make it
for whatever reason, people write in their own time. Shakespeare did not write
to earn money from royalties nor did any one before the existence of such a
scheme yet there are many classics of literature. So it is provable that great
works can be published without the same incentives that exist now, it is
undeniable and indisputable.

Even if we were left with a tenth of the amount of literature that is being
produced now, if nine of then authors threw their arms up saying they cannot
sustain their livelihood without copyrights then there would still be more books
than you could possibly read in a year being published in that [year][]. Even if
ninety nine out of a hundred did so you would get the same result.

#### Books - Non Fiction

There are already many books of non-fiction out there, of high quality as well,
on all kinds of subjects. I can point to one, which although it is of disputed
quality is certainly used an incredible amount, Wikipedia; A free, user
generated and edited encyclopedia. This is just one example and not an orthodox
one, if you want a more orthodox example of what a free book can look like can
look at this [list of lists], this is just for programming books. I have seen
lists also for mathematics (although cannot find them at the moment). These
books range in quality, but they are generally good and they are about technical
subjects all of which are legally free now.

In a copyright free world we would have this, but we could also have more,
educational authorities have a budget they need to allocate when it comes to the
procurement of books, the profit in the system going to the publisher, instead
of this inefficiency these authorities could commission works, the teachers
and lecturers paid to write. 

Once that initial hurdle has been overcome it becomes simply a matter of
*updating* the works in question. How often does high school calculus change?
Very little since the days of Newton. The teaching style may do, but given the
open nature of the book old problems can be reformatted in the new method, the
curriculum updated with a *macro*, mistakes can be submitted to the repository
they are held in by anyone and changes made *instantly*. Not only would this
model be free for the student, they would have an electronic copy for
themselves and a physical one at the discretion of the school, it would be
*superior* and if handled correctly *cheaper*. I fully believe in the
machinations of capitalism where a capitalist market place can exist, but the
textbook industry is not a textbook example of one, competition is not great and
the audiences are captive.

I should probably talk more on this issue in a different article.

#### Films

Now here is something that I think would greatly suffer, which is a shame but
not the end of the world. I have argued that music and literature would not be
changed largely, or even improved, films however need those large budgets. 

Camera crews, editing, the special effects, the props all cost a huge amount of
money, one thing that I do not particularly care about is the astronomical
figures that A-list film stars can command, those figures can plummet and I
would not care.

It is certainly possible to create good cinema with more modest equipment but it
is more difficult, eventually is could be possible that the home environment is
capable of a large amount of the work as it is getting to be in the audio realm.
Cameras are coming down in price, but that is only part of the equation. I do
think films would suffer greatly. Despite the prevalence of video hosting site,
those sites hold home made videos that are obviously not studio quality, unlike
the written word, unlike the song.

Apart from product placement in films, or the shaky home video, I see no method
of delivering comparable quality. I can only say; is making most people
criminals worth the added value of the film. There are other forms of
entertainment and it would be a joke to say that most films, even or especially
the big budget ones, will even be remembered in the years to come.

#### Photography
#### Journalism
#### Scientific Journals
#### Programming, engineering, technical fields.

I am definitely not calling for all programming works to become open source,
however nice that would be, it is probably not tenable in a lot of industries,
not so in many other technical industries in fact, so I must have to propose
some alternative and largely we have that already; in engineering patents, and
in software we do have copyright - but I think the field can largely exist
without it anyway, here is why:



### Patents

### Attribution and defending open source works.

I *do* think artists work should be properly attributed to them and I also think
open source projects should be defended when their licenses want for it as it is
defending the code against corporations and not the individual generally. 

### Real world examples
Open source software.
Books
Music
Work


[year]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Books_published_per_country_per_year
[list of lists]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/194812/list-of-freely-available-programming-books
