## Tablets: Suboptimal computing

Let me preface this by saying that the title is a little bit inflammatory; you
have just bought a tablet costing five hundred dollars or pounds and you need to
*justify* your unnecessary purchase, I understand that. There a few actual
bona fide uses for a tablet and they are mainly useful for one thing;
consumption. That in itself is why they are an inherently bad thing, they are
designed so you cannot produce, you *must* consume.

I could understand the purchase of one of the incredibly cheap android tablets
(but neither one of the expensive models or a competitors model, which are also
generally expensive). I could understand that and using it for a simple specific
purpose, like a more general purpose E-book reader while you are traveling.

## The PC is not going away

A theme that is often repeated and often refuted is that the PC is dying, it may
become less relevant, although not to those that have to do *actual work*, but
it is certainly not going away. We are certainly not in a "post PC world".

The growth rate of PC sales maybe in decline circa 2013, but think as to why
that is. I will tell you why, I recently purchased a Raspberry Pi and if it was
not for that fact that Firefox took up most of the resources (the webpages
I load are also partially to blame) I could use that as my *primary* computer
and I could be relatively comfortable, this is equivalent to hardware available
in the early 2000s. Not only that, but a lot of people already have multiple PCs
that they do not need to upgrade, people simply do not need to upgrade. The PC
market is becoming more mature. Admittedly being able to use such a limited
computer as the Pi is not for everyone, in fact it is not even for me, but the
point still stands, we have all this hardware and no need for it.

Another reason tablets have been so successful, that is a quickly growing
market, is because they are a new toy. There was no choice before for computing,
it was a case of you can have any type of computer you want so long as it is a
PC (or laptop which I am lumping in to all of this). Tablets are *new* and
*cool*, they are not however what you use to actually do things.

Now that we have got that out of the way.

### Grue pie thinking is not very apt-get

Companies, some companies, dream of a time when you will use their 'ecosystem'
which as far as I can tell is they are trying to sell you their version of shiny
vendor lock-in. The idea that you will use their limited computing system,
usually a tablet, in conjunction with magic cloud services and a healthy does of
'I cannot let you do that Dave'. 

Tablets, at least the software that runs on them is a symptom of this, give me
the tablet that allows you to run this command 'apt-get' without having to
either jailbreak or root the device. I do not like the term 'jailbreak', a term
which implies that you *are doing something wrong* for using the system as you
wish it to be.

You should have complete control over what you are allowed to do with your
tablet (and phone) as soon as you have it, you should not run the risk of
voiding its warranty or bricking the device.

There is a tendency towards more invasive Digital Rights Management and 'Walled
Gardens', something which has been called ["The Coming Civil War over General
Purpose Computing"][]. The Civil
War metaphor between those that do and those that do not want it, although there
is a third party, those that do not care which by and large is most consumers.

I thought a particularly good post on Slashdot put a good hypothesis as to why
tablets have caught on so quickly. It is not because they are inherently better,
their form factors more optimal. It is because it is almost impossible to go
wrong with them. People simply do not care that they are buying convenience but
selling their future.

### 'App' stores

'App' stores bring down a massive thunderous rage from me. They are *not* how
software repositories should work, you may find this hard to believe but there
is a mountain of completely free (ignore the terminology here) software out
there that is of very high quality, it does not cost 0.99 money units nor does
it come laden with processor and bandwidth hogging adverts. It does not spy on
you, it does not break, it works and it works well. And what is more every
single Linux and modern Unix like distribution comes with a massive software
repository. 

You may have noticed that most of my arguments do not just apply to tablets, but
they apply to phones as well. Essentially all they are is scaled up phones, so
the same problems apply.


### The hardware

You may have noticed that I have not been criticizing the hardware itself too
much just the software that runs on them, and the 'ecosystems' that go along
with them. The hardware itself generally is alright, I type a lot however so a
keyboard is a must, I prefer a bigger screen, I like to use a mouse sometimes,
tablets do not suck because of the hardware although it does preclude me using
them for what I do. Tablets suck because...

### Final words

Tablets suck because people try to use them for what they are not for (work), 
because they encourage *consumption over creation* and the ecosystems
surrounding them are absolutely terrible along with the software that runs on
them. 

Thank you for reading!

["The Coming Civil War over General Purpose Computing"]: http://boingboing.net/2012/08/23/civilwar.html
