## 2013-07-17 toolmaker.md

## Making tools

I enjoy making tools, whether it is software tools like [FORTH][], or tools such
as simple power supplies and function generators (that I *should* eventually
write up about). I find that it is a great way to learn about things and when
you are creating physical items at least, it is generally cheaper as well.

### Electronics

Electronics is one area where making your own tools pays off, not just in the
amount you save but in what you learn while doing it as well. You can make
amplifiers, function generators, power supplies of various types, tools for
sensing and measuring, logic analyzers, programmable logic controllers, and 
even oscilloscopes and even spectrum analyzers. 

What you can build nowadays is greatly helped by how cheap and relatively simple
things have become, learning electronics for the hobbyists mainly means taking
an analogue signal and the first thing you do to it will be to convert it into a
digital form, process it, then convert it back without having to worry about the
complexities of analogue electronics which is one of the reasons why
micro controller development boards are so popular.

### Computing

In computing we can see power of open source tools, you may side with
proprietary operating systems in terms of which ones you use, as well with
tools, they are usually presented as **open source tool** versus **proprietary
tool**. You may side with what ever the proprietary tool is, and that is fine,
however it demonstrates that open source tools made by ordinary people, people
who make tools, can compete on their own and that learning how to make these
tools does help other people.

Computing can be actually quite difficult to make a difference in, I have
noticed that some fields tend not to be very well documented on the Internet nor
are there a lot of free, open source solutions available, computing is not one
of these fields. It certainly has gotten easier to find information but it is
still more specialist. You can make a lot of difference in these fields by
taking what you know and telling other people about them, showing the projects
that you have made, where as in computing you have to be a genius to develop a
new tools that everyone will use. It is not because the field is harder it is
just the fact that information, which programs are, are so easy to share, as
well as the culture that surrounds these fields. Toolmakers in these fields are
either intimate or can easily pick up other tools that will help them
communicate their ideas and work with other people. There is a culture of
sharing because of this that is not available or practical elsewhere.

### Greatness

I think there is greatness to be had in building tools for your fellow man,
documenting them and keeping them up to date for other people to use and benefit
from. We are tool makers, that is one thing that humans are remarkable for and
it allows us to master our universe.

Tool making does not define what it is to be human but I do think that it is
great part in it which is why I encourage other people to design, make and
*document* how they made their own tools.

Making tools is just one way in which we can gain domain and understanding over
our environment, we can also use them to help out other people. And the
information does not cost too much. I have presented the tools that I hope to
create and what I will do but this list is not exhaustive, perhaps you have
something that you know about in which you can contribute back.

[FORTH]: http://work.anapnea.net/txt/html/forth.html
