## The solution to all problems; willpower.

How many times do you wish you were more intelligent compared to how many times
do you wish you had the willpower to study more instead of messing around and
procrastinating? Being healthy, quiting smoking or not starting, not drinking
yourself into a stupor, learning instead of watching TV, reading a book instead
of wasting time online, using the Internet for what it was envisioned for not
for what it has become all require willpower. I will not offer an solutions, I
know what the solution is but I do not know the working, it is that personal
restraint.

### The cause of many problems.

Many societal problems can be traced to a lack of one thing on the part of the
individual, this lack of self control.

Take a look at the following and see which are *not* a problem caused by people
not exerting control on their behaviors:

* Obesity.
* Lack of exercise.
* Credit card debt caused by excessive shopping.
* Gambling.
* Alcoholism and drug abuse.
* Spending free time in front of the television instead of learning.

Nearly all of us, and all of us of *average* intelligence and of a healthy body
*could*, *could* become much better people *if* we had that magical word
*willpower* in more abundance. We could have mastered an instrument, achieved
fluency in a foreign language, be fairly proficient in one or two miscellaneous
skills, be in great shape and we could do this all at the same time.

If the people in a country had the ability to say no (which they do not) then we
would not have health epidemic caused by overeating, smoking would not be a
major cause of death, they would instead be the perfect people shown on TV. That
is "if".

People no longer want for food, they have too much in the western world, nor for
information, we have libraries and more recently the Internet. They lack the
ability to say no and to make judgments based on the information they have
versus the wants of more basic desires.

Genetically engineered super beings of the future are often portrayed as being
smarter, quicker, stronger - better in every single way. However I think there
is only one characteristic that would need to be improved the achieve the same
goal - that willpower in every human. I do not know how to do this, perhaps it
can be achieved through the correct teachings and designing the right systems
around yourself, perhaps not, but if there is one thing that *I* desire it is
that strength of character above all else.

### The solution

I do not have a solution, only a criticism, a question. I do not propose a
solution and it would be ridiculous to ask for people to change, for human
nature to change. I just think it is an interesting area of inquiry.
